I will start by quoting a quote from Peter
Drucker, who is one of the greatest
gurus of management in the 20th
century.
You can't manage what you can't measure.
You can't manage or you won't
be able to manage what you're
not measuring.
This is the first lesson we
have to learn from this class.
The metric, the metric
we use, is very important.
That is what Peter Drucker said.
Anything you are not measuring on
a daily basis, that you are not encouraging
people to do so, that is not
on the CEO's mental agenda,
the board of directors,
etc.
Everything we do not measure will
not be managed, we will not focus
on it.
And ultimately, therefore,
the metrics you use are
absolutely determining how
you'll manage your business.
Well, what we are going to do today
is that as we want to become one
we have to incorporate metrics
that help us to do so.
And we'll do the exercise of thinking
about what are the metrics that
have always imported us all.
And I want you to think about your
company or the company you work
for or the companies you've worked
for throughout your life.
Well, because mainly I would
say that they are sales, it is
the most common metric that we are
always measuring and as the company
is bigger, because we measure
the metric with greater recurrence.
We measure metrics on a day or a month
or on a month or a
year mainly, etc.
We also always measure sales
increases from the previous period,
whether the last month or the
month of the previous year.
This is something that always
obsesses us, we are always measuring
sales.
In the organization they are measured
by department or if we talk about
a commercial structure, we have
commercial, commercial
delegates, that commanaux, etc.
What they do is measure
sales for each of those
people and assign sales growth
goals to each person
in the trading force.
I think it sounds like something
all this.
What other metrics always
matter to us all?
EBITDA, net profit, for example,
or if we are talking about a
level of quoted companies, etc.
We could also include the
stock market.
Well, in any case, I'm sure you're
with me that these are the metrics
that are in the minds of everyone
and that are the ones we say
are the engine, it's what
we monitor to always try
to maximize, optimize, etc.
The question is, are these metrics
we've seen really representative
of the value generated to the
customer?
The answer is no, not directly.
I will give you an example.
You can be measuring sales
growth every month and you
can grow a bit by a percent
in sales.
However, it can be assumed that this
can be done so that the value generated
to customers is less and less,
you can be giving that customers
are giving before they are
down, they are more dissatisfied,
etc.
You can grow for many
reasons.
It may be because you're investing more
or better in marketing, it may be
because you're increasing your trading
power, because you're pushing
your products, but this is not
sustainable.
This is a too short perspective.
Well, what we have to do is
incorporate metrics that help
us to be a more customer-centric company.
This is the most important thing in
today's class.
We will never forget about
sales, profits, etc.
It is impossible to forget that.
But we have to incorporate other metrics
and they have to be really
important for the entire organization.
Let's see several.
The first is the customer lifetime value.
Rather than thinking about customers
in aggregate and looking like they
were, imagine, we have a bag with
all customers and what we do
is see how much sales we get
out of that bag or how much profits.
Now let's think about the value
generated by a customer throughout
his life.
Why is it important to think so?
It forces you to change your approach.
When you think this way, you are
really thinking of each of your
customers as an asset, as
an investment you have made and
that you have to make a
profit throughout the customer's
life.
What is the customer lifetime
value?
Well, it depends on several factors,
but between them depends on the
time that the customer is as
a customer.
That it is very representative that
the customer is satisfied, is obvious.
Another metrics that is also
related to this is the chance
rate, which is the percentage
of drops we have in a period
of time.
If we systematically monitor the chance
rate, we will get a lot of information
about whether customers are more
and more satisfied and are less
down-and-down or the opposite.
Another key metric is repetition.
A customer who repeats is a satisfied
customer.
We can measure repetition in very different
ways, but we would have to
incorporate metrics that represent
this, whether they repeat, whether
there is fidelity, whether
there is loyalty, whether there
is engagement, etc.
The caseistics are very different, they
can be measured in very different
ways as I said before.
The last metrics I'm going to talk
about is the Net Promoter Score,
NPS, which is accepted as the
best indicator of customer experience
and I'm sure you've received
NPS surveys, I'm going to
share this on screen.
You are asked from 0 to 10 to
what extent you would recommend the
product or service to a friend.
I want you to understand what the
NPS tells us.
It turns out that your promoters,
those people who will recommend
you, give you a rating of 9
or 10.
Those that are neutral or passive
will put you a 7 and an 8 and 6
down are tractors.
They are customers who will either
talk badly about you or probably
won't buy you again.
This may seem too exaggerated,
but you think
so.
We'll think we'll go to a
restaurant and we love that
restaurant and on the next
opportunity we have we recommend
it to our friends,
etc.
Or put it in a whatsapp
group, I'm delighted, I
recommend this site.
What note would you put?
You probably put a 9 or a 10 to
that restaurant because a restaurant
you put an 8 or a 7 is fine,
but as there are so many
you won't recommend it.
And a restaurant that you put a
6 down is very likely to not
return.
I want to make two more nuances by
comparing the traditional
metrics that we all have always
measured and we will continue
to measure with the more customer-
centered metrics.
I want you to keep in mind
that traditional metrics are
easier to measure, because
sales, profit, etc.
It is pure accounting.
However, if we want to measure the
lifetime, the customer lifetime
value, the chance rate, etc.
The nps, well, because it is true
that we need a little more sophisticated
systems, but well, it is more
and more easy to do it and it
is worth it.
And the last precision and is of
the most important, because it
is absolutely strategic, it is a
paradigm shift, is that if you are
thinking only in the short term,
most likely you are thinking
about the sales of the coming month.
But you have to overcome this,
you have to overcome this myopia.
What you have to do is really
understand, validate, that the biggest
asset you have are your customers and
the ability to generate more and more
value to your customers will determine
what your company will generate
profits in the medium and
long term.
What happens, and it is true, is that
there are decisions aimed at
increasing the customer lifetime
value, deducting the chance rate,
etc., which do not have to have
an impact on sales the coming month.
So you have to overcome, you have
to overcome the short term, you have
to think a little more long-term
and this in many cases is very
difficult.
We have worked with sales of the
corresponding period.
It is very difficult for them to think about
the value of their customers, the value generated
like that.
It is very difficult to worry about
the chance rate, because they
are absolutely short-term oriented.